It is often the case that you'll end up
having vectors in very high dimensions.
You want to find a way to reduce
the dimension of these vectors to two
dimensions.
So you can plot it on an XY axis.
You will now learn about principal
components analysis which will
allow you to do so.
You are going to be using principal
component analysis to visualize vector
representations with
higher dimensions than
the ones that you've seen plotted so far.
To get started, I'll give you some
intuition on the motivation for
visualizing vector representation of
words and you will see for yourself with
principal component analysis does and how
it is used for dimensionality reduction.
Imagine you have the following
representation for
your words in a vector space.
In this scenario, your vector space
dimension is higher than two that
the words oil and gas and
city and town are related.
And you want to see if that relationship
is captured by the representation of your
words.
So how could you visualize your words
in order to see this and other possible
relationships, dimensionality reduction
is a perfect choice for this task.
When you have a representation of your
words in a high dimensional space,
you could use an algorithm like PCA to
get a representation on a vector space
with fewer dimensions.
If you want to visualize your data,
you can get a reduced representation
with three or fewer features.
If you perform principal component
analysis on your data and
get a two dimensional representation,
you can then plot a visual of your words.
In this case, you might find that
your initial representation captured
the relationship between the words oil and
gas and city and town.
Because in your two dimensional space they
appear to be clustered with related words.
You can even find other relationships
among your words that you didn't expect.
Which is a fun and useful possibility.
Now, that you know what
PCA can help you achieve.
Let's go into detail on how it works.
For the sake of simplicity.
I'll begin with a two
dimensional vector space.
Say that you want your data to
be represented by one feature.
Instead using PCA.
First, you'll find a set of un correlated
features and then project your
data to a one dimensional space trying to
retain as much information as possible.
As you can see,
this process is quite straightforward.
Coming up, you'll see for
yourself the details of how this
algorithm works along with how
to get uncorrelated features.
You'll also project your data for
a representation in a lower
dimension while retaining as
much information as possible.
Let's do a quick review before you go.
PCA Is an algorithm used for
dimensionality reduction that can find
uncorrelated features for your data.
It's very helpful for
visualizing your data to check
if your representation is capturing
relationships among words.
You learned how to visualize
components using PCA.
So given any d dimensional vector, you
can transform it into two dimensions and
then you can create a plot.
In the next video, we will go over
how the algorithm actually works.